# Linux commands

## OS Version
    uname -srm
    cat /proc/version
    hostnamectl

## Make archive
    tar cvf - /etc /home | gzip > test.tar.gz

## Extract archive
    gunzip < test.tar.gz | tar xvf -

## Convert file's encoding
    iconv -f UTF-8 -t CP1252 <in_file> > <out_file>

## Linux Performance Monitoring
    vmstat
    iostat

## Information about the Linux networking
    netstat -a -n

## Monitor processes
    top

## Use [] in grep to find a process and not include the grep command itself when you pipe ps -ef output to grep
    ps -ef | grep inet[d]

## Use the IFS shell variable to split a line into fields:
    grep root /etc/passwd | IFS=: read user x1 uid gid x2 home shell
    print $uid $home

## To send all output (stdout and stderr) generated by a command to the same file use
    command >file 2>&1

## To send all output (stdout and stderr) generated by a command to a file and to the terminal (stdout) use
    command 2>&1 | tee file

## The following String Substitution Operators can be used
Return value of varname if it exists and it is not null; otherwise return value.
    ${varname:-value}

Return value of varname if it exists and it is not null; otherwise set varname to value and return value.
    ${varname:=value}

Return value of varname if it exists and it is not null; otherwise print varname: message and abort current command or script. Default message is parameter null or not set.
    ${varname:?message}

Return value, if varname exists and it is not null; otherwise return null.
    ${varname:+value}

## The following Pattern-matching Operators can be used:
If pattern matches the beginning of varname's value, delete the shortest part that mathes and return the rest.
    ${varname#pattern}

If pattern matches the beginning of varname's value, delete the longest part that mathes and return the rest.
    ${varname##pattern}

If pattern matches the end of varname's value, delete the shortest part that mathes and return the rest.
    ${varname%pattern}

If pattern matches the end of varname's value, delete the longest part that mathes and return the rest.
    ${varname%%pattern}

## Use the command to display the numerical position in string of first character in string2 that matches.
    expr index string string2

## The command extracts length characters of substring from string starting at position.
    expr substr string position length